teaching/mat136f15/materials.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Course Materials
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/">Teaching</a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/mat136f15">MAT 136</a></li>
  <li class="active">Materials</li>
</ol>

<div class="row">
<div class="col-xs-12">
<div class="btn-group btn-group-justified">
<a class="btn btn-default btn-success" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/syllabus/">Syllabus</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-primary" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/materials/">
<span class="hidden-xs">Course Materials</span><span class="visible-xs">Stuff</span>
</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-warning" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/homework/">
<span class="hidden-xs">Homework</span><span class="visible-xs">HW</span>
</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-info" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/journal/">Journal</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

## Course Notes & Other Resources ##
Below you will find notes and handouts that we have used in class, as well as some other useful stuff.

- [Introduction to WeBWorK](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqv2dk70IFw). **Note:** There are some inconsistencies in this video due to the fact that I made it for my Fall 2012 class.  The version of WeBWorK has been upgraded, but it should still be useful.
- [Setting the Stage]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/SettingTheStage.pdf)
- [Differential Calculus]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/DifferentialCalculus-JIBLM.pdf), which is a set of [inquiry-based learning](http://maamathedmatters.blogspot.com/2013/05/what-heck-is-ibl.html) (IBL) notes written by [Brian Loft](http://www.shsu.edu/academics/mathematics-and-statistics/faculty/loft.html) (Sam Houston State University) and published by the [Journal of Inquiry-Based Learning](http://www.jiblm.org).
- [Trig Unit Circle]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/UnitCircle.pdf)
- [Required Knowledge from Precalculus]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136RequiredKnowledge.pdf)
- [Are You Ready for Calculus? Questions]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136ReadyCalculusQuestions.pdf)
- [Are You Ready for Calculus? Answers]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136ReadyCalculusAnswers.pdf)
- [Calculus Applets with GeoGebra](http://dcernst.github.io/CalculusApplets/)
- [Supplemental Problems for Exam 1 Content]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/136Exam1-Supplemental.pdf)

<!--
- [Function Analysis](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/FunctionAnalysis.pdf)
- [Applied Optimization](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/AppliedOptimization.pdf)
- [Related Rates](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/RelatedRates.pdf)
- [Integration by Substitution](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/Substitution.pdf)
- [Integration by By Parts](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/IntegrationByParts.pdf)
- [Falling Objects](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/FallingObjects.pdf) -->

## Additional Videos, Applets, & Problems ##
Below is a partial list of applet and video repositories related to calculus. There are lots more out there. If you know of a good resource that's not listed below, please let me know.

  * [MOOCulus Videos](https://mooculus.osu.edu/lectures)
  * [CalculusApplets.com](http://calculusapplets.com)
  * [Education Portal](http://education-portal.com/academy/course/calculus.html)
  * [integralCALC videos](http://www.integralcalc.com)
  * [Patrick's Just Math Tutorials](http://patrickjmt.com/#calculus)
  * [Khan Academy](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/calculus)
  * [Brightstorm Calculus Videos](http://www.brightstorm.com/math/calculus/)
  * [Math Doctor Bob videos](http://www.mathdoctorbob.org/default.html)
  * [MathVids](http://mathvids.com/topic/mathhelp/5-calculus)
  * [The Calculus Page Problems List](http://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~kouba/ProblemsList.html)

## Free Calculus Textbooks ##
Here is a list of free calculus texts that you may use as an additional resource.  If you find one of these more helpful than another, please let me know.  Also, if you know of other resources, please let me know.

* [MOOCulus Textbook](https://mooculus.osu.edu/handouts) is a free textbook from the [MOOCulus](https://mooculus.osu.edu/) folks at Ohio State University. This text is mostly an adaptation of the Community Calculus text listed below.
* [Community Calculus](communitycalculus.org) by [David Guichard](http://skink.whitman.edu/~guichard/) (Whitman College). This one is also available as a free PDF. You can also purchase a very inexpensive hardcopy from [Lulu](http://www.lulu.com/spotlight/whitmancalculus).
* [Active Calculus](http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/Download.html) by [Matt Boelkins](http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/MB.html) (Grand Valley State College). This is one of the newer additions to the list of free calculus texts.
* [Calculus](http://ocw.mit.edu/resources/res-18-001-calculus-online-textbook-spring-2005/textbook/) by [Gilbert Strang](http://www-math.mit.edu/~gs/) (MIT). This book is available as a free PDF from the [MIT Open Courseware Project](http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm). There are also some corresponding videos, which can be found [here](http://ocw.mit.edu/high-school/courses/highlights-of-calculus/index.htm).
* [Calculus Refresher](http://www.math.umn.edu/~garrett/calculus/) by [Paul Garrett](http://www.math.umn.edu/~garrett/index.shtml) (University of Minnesota). Another free PDF. This short book seems designed for students who have had some experience with calculus and need some review.
* [Funny Little Calculus Text](http://www.math.upenn.edu/~ghrist/FLCT/index.html) by [Robert Ghrist](http://www.math.upenn.edu/~ghrist/index.html) (University of Pennsylvania). Currently only first semester calculus, very short, and no exercises, but a free PDF.
* [Paul’s Online Math Notes](http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/) by [Paul Dawkins](http://www.math.lamar.edu/faculty/dawkins/dawkins.aspx) (Lamar University). Paul's notes cover Calculus 1-3, Linear Algebra, and more. The notes are available as free HTML-based material. These notes seem to be popular with students.
* [Differential Calculus with Sage](http://wdjoyner.com/teach/calc1-sage/) by [David Joyner](http://wdjoyner.com/) (United States Naval Academy) and Granville. This free book is available as either a PDF or in HTML form. The book covers first semester calculus and incorporates [Sage](http://sagemath.org), which is an open-source mathematics software package.
* [Integral Calculus with Sage](http://boxen.math.washington.edu/home/wdj/teaching/calc2-sage/) by [Dale Hoffman](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/) (Bellevue Community College), [William Stein](http://modular.math.washington.edu/) (University of Washington), and [David Joyner](http://wdjoyner.com/) (United States Naval Academy). The book picks up where the previous book left off.
* [Contemporary Calculus](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/Calculus_all/Calculus_all.html) by [Dale Hoffman](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/) (Bellevue Community College).  A free online calculus text that is being developed for the [Open Course Library Project of the Washington State Colleges](http://opencourselibrary.org).  This book is part of the foundation for the previous book.  It covers three semesters of calculus and seems to do a thorough job of it, but the formatting is awful.

Commit message:

Added solutions to 136 Exam 1 reviews

teaching/mat136f15/materials.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Course Materials
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/">Teaching</a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/mat136f15">MAT 136</a></li>
  <li class="active">Materials</li>
</ol>

<div class="row">
<div class="col-xs-12">
<div class="btn-group btn-group-justified">
<a class="btn btn-default btn-success" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/syllabus/">Syllabus</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-primary" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/materials/">
<span class="hidden-xs">Course Materials</span><span class="visible-xs">Stuff</span>
</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-warning" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/homework/">
<span class="hidden-xs">Homework</span><span class="visible-xs">HW</span>
</a>

<a class="btn btn-default btn-info" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat136f15/journal/">Journal</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

## Course Notes & Other Resources ##
Below you will find notes and handouts that we have used in class, as well as some other useful stuff.

- [Introduction to WeBWorK](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqv2dk70IFw). **Note:** There are some inconsistencies in this video due to the fact that I made it for my Fall 2012 class.  The version of WeBWorK has been upgraded, but it should still be useful.
- [Setting the Stage]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/SettingTheStage.pdf)
- [Differential Calculus]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/DifferentialCalculus-JIBLM.pdf), which is a set of [inquiry-based learning](http://maamathedmatters.blogspot.com/2013/05/what-heck-is-ibl.html) (IBL) notes written by [Brian Loft](http://www.shsu.edu/academics/mathematics-and-statistics/faculty/loft.html) (Sam Houston State University) and published by the [Journal of Inquiry-Based Learning](http://www.jiblm.org).
- [Trig Unit Circle]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/UnitCircle.pdf)
- [Required Knowledge from Precalculus]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136RequiredKnowledge.pdf)
- [Are You Ready for Calculus? Questions]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136ReadyCalculusQuestions.pdf)
- [Are You Ready for Calculus? Answers]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/136ReadyCalculusAnswers.pdf)
- [Calculus Applets with GeoGebra](http://dcernst.github.io/CalculusApplets/)
- [Supplemental Problems for Exam 1 Content]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/136Exam1-Supplemental.pdf)
- [Solutions to Supplemental Problems for Exam 1 Content]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/136Exam1-SupplementalSolns.pdf)
- [Solutions to Appendix: Chapter 1-2 Review]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15/136Exam1-ReviewSolns.pdf)

<!--
- [Function Analysis](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/FunctionAnalysis.pdf)
- [Applied Optimization](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/AppliedOptimization.pdf)
- [Related Rates](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/RelatedRates.pdf)
- [Integration by Substitution](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/Substitution.pdf)
- [Integration by By Parts](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/IntegrationByParts.pdf)
- [Falling Objects](http://teaching.danaernst.com/files/fall2014/mat136/FallingObjects.pdf) -->

## Additional Videos, Applets, & Problems ##
Below is a partial list of applet and video repositories related to calculus. There are lots more out there. If you know of a good resource that's not listed below, please let me know.

  * [MOOCulus Videos](https://mooculus.osu.edu/lectures)
  * [CalculusApplets.com](http://calculusapplets.com)
  * [Education Portal](http://education-portal.com/academy/course/calculus.html)
  * [integralCALC videos](http://www.integralcalc.com)
  * [Patrick's Just Math Tutorials](http://patrickjmt.com/#calculus)
  * [Khan Academy](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/calculus)
  * [Brightstorm Calculus Videos](http://www.brightstorm.com/math/calculus/)
  * [Math Doctor Bob videos](http://www.mathdoctorbob.org/default.html)
  * [MathVids](http://mathvids.com/topic/mathhelp/5-calculus)
  * [The Calculus Page Problems List](http://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~kouba/ProblemsList.html)

## Free Calculus Textbooks ##
Here is a list of free calculus texts that you may use as an additional resource.  If you find one of these more helpful than another, please let me know.  Also, if you know of other resources, please let me know.

* [MOOCulus Textbook](https://mooculus.osu.edu/handouts) is a free textbook from the [MOOCulus](https://mooculus.osu.edu/) folks at Ohio State University. This text is mostly an adaptation of the Community Calculus text listed below.
* [Community Calculus](communitycalculus.org) by [David Guichard](http://skink.whitman.edu/~guichard/) (Whitman College). This one is also available as a free PDF. You can also purchase a very inexpensive hardcopy from [Lulu](http://www.lulu.com/spotlight/whitmancalculus).
* [Active Calculus](http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/Download.html) by [Matt Boelkins](http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/MB.html) (Grand Valley State College). This is one of the newer additions to the list of free calculus texts.
* [Calculus](http://ocw.mit.edu/resources/res-18-001-calculus-online-textbook-spring-2005/textbook/) by [Gilbert Strang](http://www-math.mit.edu/~gs/) (MIT). This book is available as a free PDF from the [MIT Open Courseware Project](http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm). There are also some corresponding videos, which can be found [here](http://ocw.mit.edu/high-school/courses/highlights-of-calculus/index.htm).
* [Calculus Refresher](http://www.math.umn.edu/~garrett/calculus/) by [Paul Garrett](http://www.math.umn.edu/~garrett/index.shtml) (University of Minnesota). Another free PDF. This short book seems designed for students who have had some experience with calculus and need some review.
* [Funny Little Calculus Text](http://www.math.upenn.edu/~ghrist/FLCT/index.html) by [Robert Ghrist](http://www.math.upenn.edu/~ghrist/index.html) (University of Pennsylvania). Currently only first semester calculus, very short, and no exercises, but a free PDF.
* [Paul’s Online Math Notes](http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/) by [Paul Dawkins](http://www.math.lamar.edu/faculty/dawkins/dawkins.aspx) (Lamar University). Paul's notes cover Calculus 1-3, Linear Algebra, and more. The notes are available as free HTML-based material. These notes seem to be popular with students.
* [Differential Calculus with Sage](http://wdjoyner.com/teach/calc1-sage/) by [David Joyner](http://wdjoyner.com/) (United States Naval Academy) and Granville. This free book is available as either a PDF or in HTML form. The book covers first semester calculus and incorporates [Sage](http://sagemath.org), which is an open-source mathematics software package.
* [Integral Calculus with Sage](http://boxen.math.washington.edu/home/wdj/teaching/calc2-sage/) by [Dale Hoffman](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/) (Bellevue Community College), [William Stein](http://modular.math.washington.edu/) (University of Washington), and [David Joyner](http://wdjoyner.com/) (United States Naval Academy). The book picks up where the previous book left off.
* [Contemporary Calculus](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/Calculus_all/Calculus_all.html) by [Dale Hoffman](http://scidiv.bellevuecollege.edu/dh/) (Bellevue Community College).  A free online calculus text that is being developed for the [Open Course Library Project of the Washington State Colleges](http://opencourselibrary.org).  This book is part of the foundation for the previous book.  It covers three semesters of calculus and seems to do a thorough job of it, but the formatting is awful.
