teaching/index.md, before:

---
title: Teaching
author: Dana Ernst
layout: default
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li class="active">Teaching</li>
</ol>

This section is primarily designed for my current students, but if you are not one of my students and somehow found your way here, feel free to poke around. Unless stated otherwise, content on this site that is authored by Dana C. Ernst is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

## Office Hours ##
My current office hours for Fall 2018 are 12:30-1:30PM on Mondays and Wednesdays, 11:00AM-12:00PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 11:30AM-12:30PM on Fridays (or by appointment). My office is located in room 176 of the [Adel Mathematics Building](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Adel+Mathematics,+Flagstaff,+AZ&hl=en&sll=35.181208,-111.607959&sspn=0.231222,0.42675&oq=adel+mathe&hnear=Adel+Mathematics,+Flagstaff,+Arizona+86001&t=m&z=17) (Building 26).

## Current Courses ##
Here are the courses that I am currently teaching (Fall 2018) at [Northern Arizona University](http://nau.edu).

- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220f18)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f18)

## Previous Courses ##
This is a (partial) list of courses that I have taught over the past several semesters. **Note:** Some of the links on the pages below may be outdated.

#### Northern Arizona University ####
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220s18)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Spring 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411s18)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Fall 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220f17)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f17)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220s17)
- [MAT 320: Foundations of Mathematics, Spring 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat320s17)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f16)
- [MAT 526: Topics in Combinatorics, Fall 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat526f16)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Spring 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411s16)
- [MAT 612: Abstract Algebra II, Spring 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat612s16)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2015]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15)
- [MAT 511: Abstract Algebra I, Fall 2015]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat511f15)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2015](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat220s15/)
- [MAT 690: Reflection Groups and Coxeter Groups, Spring 2015](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat690s15/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f14/)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat411f14/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Spring 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136s14/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f13/)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat411f13/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Spring 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136s13/)
- [MAT 320: Foundations of Mathematics, Spring 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat320s13/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2012](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f12/)

#### Plymouth State University ####
<ul>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, &amp; Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3120/3120.html">MA2560: Linear Algebra, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3540/3540.html">MA2560: Calculus III, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma2000/2000.html">MA2000: Introduction to Formal Mathematics, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma4140/4140.html">MA4140: Abstract Algebra, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, &amp; Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma4220/4220.html">MA4220: Number Theory, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma2000fall2010:intro">MA2000: Introduction to Formal Mathematics, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma2550fall2010:intro">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma4510fall2010:intro">MA4510: Introduction to Analysis, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2010/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://ma4140.wikidot.com/">MA4140: Algebraic Structures, Spring 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Summer2009/MG5860/5860.html">MG 5860: Visual Group Theory, Summer 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2008/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2008</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2008/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Fall 2008</a></li>
</ul>

#### University of Colorado at Boulder ####
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Spring 2008](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2008/1300.html)
- [Math 2300: Calculus II, Fall 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2007/2300.html)
- [Math 3130: Linear Algebra, Spring 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2007/3130/3130.html)
- [Math 5905: Math Teacher Training, Spring 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2007/5905/5905.html)
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Fall 2006](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall%202006/1300.html)
- [Math 2300: Calculus II, Fall 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall%202005/2300.html)
- [Math 1150: Precalculus, Summer 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Summer%202005/1150.html)
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Spring 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring%202005/1300.html)

Commit message:

Initial start for teaching spring 2019

teaching/index.md, after:

---
title: Teaching
author: Dana Ernst
layout: default
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li class="active">Teaching</li>
</ol>

This section is primarily designed for my current students, but if you are not one of my students and somehow found your way here, feel free to poke around. Unless stated otherwise, content on this site that is authored by Dana C. Ernst is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

## Office Hours ##
My current office hours for Spring 2019 are (coming soon) or by appointment. My office is located in room 176 of the [Adel Mathematics Building](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Adel+Mathematics,+Flagstaff,+AZ&hl=en&sll=35.181208,-111.607959&sspn=0.231222,0.42675&oq=adel+mathe&hnear=Adel+Mathematics,+Flagstaff,+Arizona+86001&t=m&z=17) (Building 26).

## Current Courses ##
Here are the courses that I am currently teaching (Fall 2018) at [Northern Arizona University](http://nau.edu).

- [MAT 441: Topology]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat441s19)
- [MAT 526: Topics in Combinatorics]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat526s19)

## Previous Courses ##
This is a (partial) list of courses that I have taught over the past several semesters. **Note:** Some of the links on the pages below may be outdated.

#### Northern Arizona University ####
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Fall 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220f18)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f18)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220s18)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Spring 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411s18)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Fall 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220f17)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f17)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat220s17)
- [MAT 320: Foundations of Mathematics, Spring 2017]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat320s17)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411f16)
- [MAT 526: Topics in Combinatorics, Fall 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat526f16)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Spring 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat411s16)
- [MAT 612: Abstract Algebra II, Spring 2016]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat612s16)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2015]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat136f15)
- [MAT 511: Abstract Algebra I, Fall 2015]({{ site.baseurl }}/teaching/mat511f15)
- [MAT 220: Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning, Spring 2015](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat220s15/)
- [MAT 690: Reflection Groups and Coxeter Groups, Spring 2015](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat690s15/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f14/)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat411f14/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Spring 2014](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136s14/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f13/)
- [MAT 411: Introduction to Abstract Algebra, Fall 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat411f13/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Spring 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136s13/)
- [MAT 320: Foundations of Mathematics, Spring 2013](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat320s13/)
- [MAT 136: Calculus I, Fall 2012](http://teaching.danaernst.com/mat136f12/)

#### Plymouth State University ####
<ul>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, &amp; Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3120/3120.html">MA2560: Linear Algebra, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2012/ma3540/3540.html">MA2560: Calculus III, Spring 2012</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma2000/2000.html">MA2000: Introduction to Formal Mathematics, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/fall2011/ma4140/4140.html">MA4140: Abstract Algebra, Fall 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, &amp; Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/spring2011/ma4220/4220.html">MA4220: Number Theory, Spring 2011</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma2000fall2010:intro">MA2000: Introduction to Formal Mathematics, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma2550fall2010:intro">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dcernst-teaching.wikidot.com/ma4510fall2010:intro">MA4510: Introduction to Analysis, Fall 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2010/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://ma4140.wikidot.com/">MA4140: Algebraic Structures, Spring 2010</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2009/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Fall 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Summer2009/MG5860/5860.html">MG 5860: Visual Group Theory, Summer 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA2560/2560.html">MA2560: Calculus II, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2009/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Spring 2009</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2008/MA2550/2550.html">MA2550: Calculus I, Fall 2008</a></li>
<li><a href="http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2008/MA3110/3110.html">MA3110: Logic, Proof, and Axiomatic Systems, Fall 2008</a></li>
</ul>

#### University of Colorado at Boulder ####
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Spring 2008](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2008/1300.html)
- [Math 2300: Calculus II, Fall 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall2007/2300.html)
- [Math 3130: Linear Algebra, Spring 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2007/3130/3130.html)
- [Math 5905: Math Teacher Training, Spring 2007](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring2007/5905/5905.html)
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Fall 2006](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall%202006/1300.html)
- [Math 2300: Calculus II, Fall 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Fall%202005/2300.html)
- [Math 1150: Precalculus, Summer 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Summer%202005/1150.html)
- [Math 1300: Calculus I, Spring 2005](http://danaernst.com/archive/Spring%202005/1300.html)
