teaching/mat526f16/materials.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Course Materials
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/">Teaching</a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/mat526f16">MAT 526</a></li>
  <li class="active">Materials</li>
</ol>

<div class="row">
<div class="col-xs-12">
<div class="btn-group btn-group-justified">
<a class="btn btn-default btn-success" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/syllabus/">Syllabus</a>
<a class="btn btn-default btn-primary" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/materials/">Materials</a>
<a class="btn btn-default btn-warning" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/homework/">Homework</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

## Course Materials ##
Any relevant course materials will be posted here.

## Exams ##
Below are links to the take-home portion of each exam.

<ul class="fa-ul">
  <li><i class="fa fa-pencil-square-o"></i> Exam 1 (take-home). Coming soon.</li>
</ul>

<!--
- [Exam 1 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam1-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam1-Home.tex). (Due Friday, March 4)
- [Exam 2 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam2-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam2-Home.tex). (Due Friday, April 22)
- [Exam 3 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam3-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam3-Home.tex). (Due by 5pm on Thursday, May 12)
-->

Commit message:

Added link to errata for book

teaching/mat526f16/materials.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Course Materials
---

<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/"><i class="fa fa-home"></i></a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/">Teaching</a></li>
  <li><a href="/teaching/mat526f16">MAT 526</a></li>
  <li class="active">Materials</li>
</ol>

<div class="row">
<div class="col-xs-12">
<div class="btn-group btn-group-justified">
<a class="btn btn-default btn-success" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/syllabus/">Syllabus</a>
<a class="btn btn-default btn-primary" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/materials/">Materials</a>
<a class="btn btn-default btn-warning" href="{{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/homework/">Homework</a>
</div>
</div>
</div>

## Course Materials ##
Any relevant course materials will be posted here.

- You can find the current errata for the book [here](http://math.depaul.edu/tpeter21/Errata.pdf).

## Exams ##
Below are links to the take-home portion of each exam.

<ul class="fa-ul">
  <li><i class="fa fa-pencil-square-o"></i> Exam 1 (take-home). Coming soon.</li>
</ul>

<!--
- [Exam 1 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam1-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam1-Home.tex). (Due Friday, March 4)
- [Exam 2 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam2-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam2-Home.tex). (Due Friday, April 22)
- [Exam 3 (take-home)]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam3-Home.pdf) (PDF). If you are interested in using LaTeX to type up your solutions, then you can obtain the .tex file for the exam [here]({{site.baseurl}}/teaching/mat526f16/612Exam3-Home.tex). (Due by 5pm on Thursday, May 12)
-->
